NonsensePy------------NonsensePy generates random strings.Installation************>>> pip install nonsensepyDocumentation*************>>> NonsensePyGen.starts_with_letter()"""Generates a random string, where the first char of it will be a random letter.The size of the string will be between 10 and 10000.""">>> NonsensePyGen.starts_with_letter(size=100)"""Generates a random string, where the first char of it will be a random letter.The size of the string will be 100.""">>> NonsensePyGen.starts_with_digit()"""Generates a random string, where the first char of it will be a random digit.The size of the string will be between 10 and 10000.""">>> NonsensePyGen.starts_with_digit(size=100)"""Generates a random string, where the first char of it will be a random digit.The size of the string will be 100.""">>> NonsensePyGen.starts_with_uppercase()"""Generates a random string, where the first char of it will be a random uppercase letter.The size of the string will be between 10 and 10000.""">>> NonsensePyGen.starts_with_uppercase(size=100)"""Generates a random string, where the first char of it will be a random uppercase letter.The size of the string will be 100.""">>> NonsensePyGen.random()"""Generates a random string. The size of the string will be between 10 and 10000.""">>> NonsensePyGen.random(size=100)"""Generates a random string. The size of the string will be between 100 and 10000.""">>> NonsensePyGen.nrandom()"""Generates a random string, where each of its chars is a digit. The size of the string will be between 10 and 10000.""">>> NonsensePyGen.nrandom(size=100)"""Generates a random string, where each of its chars is a digit. The size of the string will be 100.""">>> NonsensePyGen.strrandom()"""Generates a random string, where each of its chars is a letter. The size of the string will be between 10 and 10000.""">>> NonsensePyGen.strrandom(size=100)"""Generates a random string, where each of its chars is a letter. The size of the string will be 100."""Example*******>>> from nonsensepy import NonsensePyGen>>>>>> NonsensePyGen.random()qHDlCZbBvyBIIXWyjFSQwJuWHujFZNVMYSsdpUTSxXIoaoJkSQQTIVfIrOBsotZxMHfhwSawPTRRcDHjnjjhwjnjEHpXhoRKliHLICENSE*******MIT