[d3m.primitives]
classification.community_detection.CommunityDetection = sri.psl.community_detection:CommunityDetection
classification.general_relational_dataset.GeneralRelationalDataset = sri.psl.general_relational_dataset:GeneralRelationalDataset
classification.vertex_nomination.VertexClassification = sri.psl.vertex_classification:VertexClassification
community_detection.community_detection_parser.CommunityDetectionParser = sri.graph.community_detection:CommunityDetectionParser
data_preprocessing.dataset_text_reader.DatasetTextReader = sri.autoflow.dataset_text_reader:DatasetTextReader
data_transformation.collaborative_filtering_parser.CollaborativeFilteringParser = sri.graph.collaborative_filtering:CollaborativeFilteringParser
data_transformation.conditioner.Conditioner = sri.autoflow.conditioner:Conditioner
data_transformation.conditioner.StaticEnsembler = sri.autoflow.static_ensembler:StaticEnsembler
data_transformation.edge_list_to_graph.EdgeListToGraph = sri.graph.edgelist_to_graph:EdgeListToGraph
data_transformation.graph_matching_parser.GraphMatchingParser = sri.graph.graph_matching:GraphMatchingParser
data_transformation.graph_node_splitter.GraphNodeSplitter = sri.graph.node_splitter:GraphNodeSplitter
data_transformation.graph_to_edge_list.GraphToEdgeList = sri.graph.graph_to_edgelist:GraphToEdgeList
data_transformation.graph_transformer.GraphTransformer = sri.graph.transform:GraphTransformer
data_transformation.simple_column_parser.DataFrameCommon = sri.autoflow.simple_column_parser:SimpleColumnParser
data_transformation.stacking_operator.StackingOperator = sri.tpot.stacking:StackingOperator
data_transformation.vertex_classification_parser.VertexClassificationParser = sri.graph.vertex_classification:VertexClassificationParser
data_transformation.zero_count.ZeroCount = sri.tpot.zerocount:ZeroCount
link_prediction.collaborative_filtering_link_prediction.CollaborativeFilteringLinkPrediction = sri.psl.collaborative_filtering_link_prediction:CollaborativeFilteringLinkPrediction
link_prediction.graph_matching_link_prediction.GraphMatchingLinkPrediction = sri.psl.graph_matching_link_prediction:GraphMatchingLinkPrediction
link_prediction.link_prediction.LinkPrediction = sri.psl.link_prediction:LinkPrediction
time_series_forecasting.time_series_to_list.RelationalTimeseries = sri.psl.relational_timeseries:RelationalTimeseries
time_series_forecasting.vector_autoregression.VARfix = sri.autoflow.var_fix:VARfix

