MANIFEST.in
README.rst
setup.cfg
setup.py
licenseit/__init__.py
licenseit/cli.py
licenseit/commands/__init__.py
licenseit/commands/new.py
licenseit/licenses/__init__.py
licenseit/licenses/license.py
licenseit/licenses/content/Academic Free License v3.0.txt
licenseit/licenses/content/Adaptive public license.txt
licenseit/licenses/content/Apache license-2.0.txt
licenseit/licenses/content/Artistic License 2.0.txt
licenseit/licenses/content/BSD-2-Clause-Patent.txt
licenseit/licenses/content/BSD-2-Clause.txt
licenseit/licenses/content/BSD-3-Clause.txt
licenseit/licenses/content/Boost Software License 1.0 (BSL-1.0).txt
licenseit/licenses/content/Common Development and Distribution License.txt
licenseit/licenses/content/Do What The F-ck You Want To Public License.txt
licenseit/licenses/content/Eclipse Public License - v 2.0.txt
licenseit/licenses/content/Educational Community License.txt
licenseit/licenses/content/GNU Affero General Public License v3.0.txt
licenseit/licenses/content/GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE 2.0.txt
licenseit/licenses/content/GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE 3.0.txt
licenseit/licenses/content/GNU LIBRARY GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE 2.0.txt
licenseit/licenses/content/GNU Lesser General Public License 2.0.txt
licenseit/licenses/content/GNU Lesser General Public License v3.0.txt
licenseit/licenses/content/IPA Font License Agreement v1.0.txt
licenseit/licenses/content/ISC.txt
licenseit/licenses/content/LaTeX Project Public License, Version 1.3c (LPPL-1.3c).txt
licenseit/licenses/content/MIT.txt
licenseit/licenses/content/Microsoft Public License (MS-PL).txt
licenseit/licenses/content/Mozilla Public License, version 2.0.txt
licenseit/licenses/content/NASA OPEN SOURCE AGREEMENT VERSION 1.3.txt
licenseit/licenses/content/OSET PUBLIC LICENSE 2.1.txt
licenseit/licenses/content/SIL OPEN FONT LICENSE.txt
licenseit/licenses/content/The Open Software License 3.0 (OSL-3.0).txt
licenseit/licenses/content/The PostgreSQL Licence (PostgreSQL).txt
licenseit/licenses/content/The Unlicense.txt
licenseit/licenses/content/The zlib-libpng License (Zlib).txt
licenseit/licenses/content/Upstream Compatibility License v. 1.0 (UCL-1.0).txt